## Identity URL Request Parameters

You can use the following parameters with the access token and identity URL. You can use the access token in an authorization request header or a request with the `oauth_token` parameter.

<sfdocstbl><table><col /><col /><thead><tr><th>Parameter</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>access*token</td><td>OAuth token that a connected app uses to request access to a protected resource on behalf of the client application. Additional permissions in the form of scopes can accompany the access token.</td></tr><tr><td>format</td><td>Optional. Specify the format of the returned output. Values are: <ul><li><p><code>json</code></p></li><li><p><code>xml</code></p></li></ul><p>The client can also specify the returned format in an accept-request header using one of the following formats.</p><ul><li><p><code>Accept: application/json</code></p></li><li><p><code>Accept: application/xml</code></p></li><li><p><code>Accept: application/x-www-form-urlencoded</code></p></li></ul><p>The request header also supports the following.</p><ul><li><p>The <code>*/_</code> wildcard is accepted and returns JSON.</p></li><li><p>A list of values, which is checked left to right. For example: <code>application/xml,application/json,application/html,_/\_</code> returns XML.</p></li></ul><p>The <code>format</code> parameter takes precedence over the access request header.</p></td></tr><tr><td>version</td><td>Optional. Specify a SOAP API version number or the literal string <code>latest</code>. If this value isn’t specified, the returned API URLs contain the literal value <code>{version}</code> in place of the version number. If the value is specified as <code>latest</code>, the most recent API version is used.</td></tr><tr><td>PrettyPrint</td><td>Optional. Accepted only in a header and not as a URL parameter. Specify this parameter to optimize the returned XML or JSON output for readability rather than size. For example, use the following in a header: <code>X-PrettyPrint:1</code>.</td></tr><tr><td>callback</td><td>Optional. Specify a valid JavaScript function name. You can use this parameter when the specified format is JSON. The output is wrapped in this function name (JSONP). For example, if a request to <code>`https://server/id/orgid/userid/`</code> returns <code>{"function":"name"}</code>, a request to <code>`https://server/id/orgid/userid/?callback=baz`</code> returns <code>baz({"function":"name"});</code>.<br><br><em>Note: JSONP is no longer returned for Identity Service requests due to strict MIME typing. Your requests must add <code>'format=jsonp'</code> with the callback parameter so that the Identity Service returns JavaScript. When the Identity Service detects the JSONP format, it returns the required JavaScript type (<code>'application/javascript'</code>).</em></td></tr></tbody></table></sfdocstbl>
